---
layout: post
title:  "Day 9: A day at the lake"
date:   2019-06-17, Monday
categories: post
location: Yellowstone lake, Yellowstone National Park, WY, USA
---

iPhone stats: Miles 5.2 miles, 160 ft, 11163 steps

Today, we decided to give everyone's feet a bit of a break from our normal hiking routine and spend some time exploring Yellowstone Lake via boat. Reading online, we found out you could rent an 18'/40 hp boat that would hold six and we thought it would be a great way to drive around and explore the lake. However, when we arrived at the marina, we found out that the rental boats were confined to the top 10% of the lake (closest to the marina). Based on the spectacular automotive driving skills that we had seen on display in the park, I understand why, but that didn't really fit our plans for the day.

So, onto plan B: we went on a sightseeing/fishing charter instead. It ended up working out well. The six of us went out on a 22' boat and our guide, Jess, took us around the lake and pointed out some things that we wouldn't have seen on our own. Of the six of us, Adina was the only one who tried her hand at fishing. Despite dreams of fresh cooked fish for dinner, she struck out (largely due to the fact that it was early season and we had a limited amount of time, that we further divided between fishing and sightseeing). 

Nonetheless, we had a great time. We saw an eagle's nest, several underwater thermal features, and the remains of a ship that was originally owned by an early business pioneer in the park. Due to some dubious business practices, he was shut down, and had to abandon his ferry because it was too big to be removed from the lake. Eventually, it was claimed by the park service, a boiler sent to the local hotel, and the rest burned (to eliminate the parties that had been taking place there), but the remains are still visible at one point in the lake.

We also found out that the lake is very deep. Even 100' off shore, depths of 100+ feet were common, and we went over a pretty large section that was nearly 300' deep. I think that Jess said that the lake is about 130 sqmi in size, so a large amount of cold water!

Of course, it rained on us a bit, because apparently that's what it does in Yellowstone...12:30pm - time for a thunderstorm! I'm not sure what the NWS means by "30% chance of rain after noon", but given our sample of days, we were either quite unlucky, or they have a different definition of probability than I do. Fortunately, the rain was fairly light, and for the most part held off until the second half of our trip. 

Other than that, the weather was nice. The wind stayed really calm - the water was extremely smooth and nice. The views were also great. Being in the middle of such a large, flat expanse, we could see forever (bound a bit by some light haze). There were mountains all around. Some dark and snow-covered. Others covered with pine trees. Despite the unfortunate rain, the cloud formations and rain in the distance was quite impressive. At any given time, you could see cloudy, rainy, and sunny on various parts of the lake. It was a nice break from our normal mode of exploration.

That being said, we didn't take the day completely off from hiking. Before our boat trip, we hiked out to see the natural bridge. It was a great formation - a natural arch high above a flowing river. You saw it from below and then hiked up and went behind it to cross the same stream. From there, you could look through the open part of the arch out onto the expanse beyond. It was marvelous. 

Animal-wise, we saw a couple of pronghorn today, numerous elk, and several bison (even though Adina tried to dismiss at least one of them as a rock). We also saw a pelican and a grizzly up on a hill. As much as people were nervous about finding one on the trail, everyone seemed to want to see one from the car, and the park obliged. It was a very iconic sight, and great to see the bear in its natural setting.

Today's travels took us from Gardiner, MT down to Lake, WY and finally out of the park :( and over to Cody, WY. About 140 miles in Lulu today and only about 3 miles on foot. On the way out, we dealt with a lot of construction in the park that slowed us up a bit, and another delay caused by someone who tried to turn their rented RV around in a small turnoff, backed up just a bit too far, and dropped the back axle off the ledge, leaving the RV sitting on its belly on the ledge, perpendicular to the road. I was hoping the park rangers would make the driver stand with a dunce hat and apologize to the delayed travelers filing by, but that was just wishful thinking. 

The drive through the Shoshone National forest was surprisingly scenic. It was very rugged and western looking, maybe even a bit southwest looking. We also went though quite a long tunnel (I think it was the Buffalo Bill tunnel) that was unexpectedly impressive as well.

Tonight, we had dinner at the Irma hotel and restaurant in Cody. The hotel was built by Buffalo Bill in 1902, and still operates a bar, restaurant, and hotel. The food was good (not great), but the ambiance was very nice. Old school furnishings, an impressive local stone fireplace / chimney, and a long, tall & ornate cherry bar that was a gift from the Queen of England. Unfortunately, they no longer used the bar as a bar (it just didn't seem that impressive when you'd be staring at a pile of spare coffee filters), so we didn't sit there, but it was still interesting to see. There was a strong patriotic motif with streamers and flags adorning most surfaces. Seeing the building today, and comparing it to the old picture they had where it was standing alone along dirt roads (with wooden sidewalks) soon after opening was an interesting perspective.

Unfortunately, tomorrow our paths diverge. Fan & QP head back to sunny San Diego, and the rest of us start rolling west to Iowa, but not before a championship game of unstable unicorns is played!
