---
layout: post
title:  "Day 10: All good things..."
date:   2019-06-18, Tuesday
categories: post
location: Cody, Wy, USA; Beartooth scennic highway, MT, USA
---

iPhone stats: 3.6 miles, 8143 steps

Today, we started for home, and our merry band of travelers split in two. It was fun to think back over all the fun things we did, amazing things we saw, and great memories we made, but it was also sad knowing that we would be heading our separate ways, to continue our own journeys, and we marveled that a week could go by so quickly!

Before we said our farewells at the world's smallest airport with airline service (Yellowstone Regional, which Adina named "dinky dipper" after the name given to the child-size ice-cream she got in Gardiner), we had time for one last adventure together! 

We loaded into Lulu first thing in the morning and headed to Red Lodge, MT (Adina decided there were enough amenities that she could live there). From there, we did the first half of the Beartooth Hwy (US 212). Despite the best efforts of an incompetent yuppie in their VW SUV to run us off the road soon after we embarked on the route, we made it through the drive without further incident.

It was truly an amazing scene! You start winding your way through green valleys, climbing ever higher, switchback by switchback until you reach the snow (it was still several feet deep!). Then, as the vistas grow, you realize that not only can you see more because you're higher, but also that you've outclimbed the trees, and the area around you is a realm of grass and scrub. Today, we reach the level of the clouds when we crossed the pass (at 10,947 feet)! Lulu (and QP) were breathing hard to keep going at that distance.

The vistas were amazing! I see why it's been called the most scenic drive in the country. Snow capped mountains giving way to tree lined slopes and valleys in all directions. Even though you just drove there, you do get the feeling that you accomplished something grand, and you take a moment to bask in your accomplishment, when you're really just soaking in the beauty that has always been there (other than the obese chipmunks at the pull-offs - pretty sure people made them that way with all the treats they dole out!). 

 After crossing the pass, you start making your way down, turn by turn until you reach the valleys below. Because we were headed back to Cody, we turned off the Beartooth onto WY 296 (Chief Joseph) Highway rather than continuing onto the NE entrance of Yellowstone. Even though the heights weren't as great, the views from 296 were amazing as well, and it had plenty of switchbacks and curves as well. We made our way through a lush green valley interspersed with unique and impressive rock formations. It was a great view, enhanced by the unexpected nature of the beauty we soaked in.

Once back in Cody, we said our goodbyes, and Fan and QP headed for their plane home, while we continued on east. Destination: Devil's Tower. We didn't know much about it, or know what to expect, but it was really quite impressive. Certainly, we had seen taller objects in recent days, but few that stood so isolated relative to their surroundings. Only about an acre at the top, and 600' high, it was an impressive sight. While there is some disagreement about exactly how it formed, it is certainly volcanic in nature, and was likely burried for millions of years unil the softer surrounding material was eroded away, revealing the tower (Tomas said that they have a Devil's organ in Czech). You could very clearly see the (mostly) vertical lava flow-lines on all sides defining polygonal columns as you walked around. It was really unique, and the red dirt hills and green valleys that surrounded it further enhanced its uniqueness and beauty. 

As an aside, we also got to witness first-hand the phenomenon that Eveliina described at Yellowstone: Chinese tourists taking pictures of other families. Apparently, we (likely just Eveliina and we were along for the ride), were the star of some of their pictures in Yellowstone, and today, we saw them focusing on and taking pictures of another American family who was posing for their own picture. We couldn't figure out what the allure was, but apparently there was one.

After heading east again, we thought back on what we'd seen over the past week, and concluded that Wyoming is really a gorgeous state. Over multiple days and hundreds of miles we'd seen a varied and impressive landscape. Towering mountains, sculped bluffs, deep, verdant valley's, impressive sandstone cliffs, enormous high meadows, babbling steams, rolling rivers. Truly amazing scenery.

Based on our experience, we also decided it rains every day there (at least it did for us - every afternoon, it would cloud up and rain). Likely just a temporary weather pattern, but the multi-hued clouds, shafts of distant rain juxtaposed with blue skies and sun in other parts of the sky only further emphasized the dramatic scenes of terrestrial contrast all around us. All in all, we couldn't have asked for better weather for journey.

After Devil's Tower, we headed back to Rapid City for the night. All along the way today, we saw numerous deer and antelope. Certainly not as dramatic as the grizzly's and moose of the west, but they still invoked the spirit of the place and it was great to see them out in the sunshine, roaming their ancestral domain.

Only a couple of miles walking today. Lulu did the heavy lifting with 560 miles on the odometer today. Tomorrow, we head East-Southeast towards the "fantastically flat" confines of home.



Budapest
Good time
If I can't have you
