---
layout: post
title:  "Day 7: To the river"
date:   2019-06-15, Saturday
categories: post
location: Seven mile hole, Yellowstone National Park, WY, USA
---

iPhone stats: 12 miles, Floor record - 1340 ft, 27096 steps

Today's adventure took us to the bottom of the Yellowstone canyon. Fortunately, we also made it back up again. The hike is called 7 mile hole, so named because there is a small outcropping in the river bank that is 7 miles downstream from the lower falls. The hike provided a lot of different scenery. Dense pine forests gave way to open meadows which in turn fell away to barren, thermally active spaces, which were again overtaken by pine forests before we reached the river. In addition, we had views of the canyon periodically throughout the hike, and saw a few really neat thermal springs.

The hike was challenging - 10 miles round trip with about 2000' of evaluation change - first heading down and then (unfortunately) back up. The hike starts on the north side of the canyon rim and then descends all the way down to the river level.  We made it down (and back up) in 3 hours each way, with a 30 minute lunch break at the bottom, sitting on boulders right next to the water. 

Yesterday's view of the falls from the top was certainly impressive, but today's perspective, immediately adjacent to the water was as well. It surprised me that it had that kind of impact, but the river moves very fast with lots of whitewater, and seeing it from that close really allowed you to feel how powerful it is. 

This hike took us through the heart of grizzly country. As much as they recommend bear spray in general, for this hike in particular it's a recommended must, so we made sure we were well armed. We also made a lot of noise, with QP announcing himself periodically to any and all bears in the canyon area. Fortunately, the audio deterrent worked (I mean, who would want to challenge someone who just declared himself president of the United States), and we didn't find any bears. We did run across something else unexpected though: 4G! Tomas took full advantage of the situation, keeping tabs on the outside world with his phone while also booking it up and down the canyon.

We were also rewarded again for getting an early start. On our way back out of the canyon, a few high clouds started to filter in, followed shortly by some development and darkening skies here and there. As we approached the car, it started sprinkling - big drops, but infrequent. 15 minutes later, we ran by the cafeteria and the drops were a bit more frequent. A few minutes later, we looked up from devouring our lunch and saw that it was a downpour outside with hail mixed in for good measure. Once the rain let up a bit, we headed back to the cabin and saw some cars on the way out that had windshields that looked like they'd been snowed on with cowls and a-pillars covered in small hail! Despite all forecasts to the contrary, it continued to rain for most of the afternoon, so we regrouped and played some games in our cabin.

Other than one unplanned summersault (Fan) and some sore feet, we were none the worse for wear. Although, folks were pretty tired and thinking about a hike for tomorrow brought about some serious looks of apprehension. The plan is to call it a day early and get recharged for our next adventure! 

The good news is that to compensate for the long hike, we only had a short drive: 7 miles today. Lulu basically got the day off, resting up for the big push to come.
