---
layout: post
title:  "Day 8: M-Day: Mammoth and Montana"
date:   2019-06-16, Sunday
categories: post
location: Mammoth hot springs, Yellowstone National Park, WY, USA
---

iPhone stats:  9.2 miles, 1060 ft, 20342 steps

This morning we left Canyon Village and headed north to Mammoth. When we arrived, we did the Bunsen Peak hike. It was a very pleasant hike. We started off with some fog, but it burned off early and was replaced with a crisp blue sky. A few puffy clouds moved in later, which highlighted the scenery even more. It was about 5 miles round trip, and the from the peak (~8,500 ft), you had an expansive 360 view of the surrounding peaks and valleys. It was gorgeous (and much better received length-wise than yesterday's 10 mile jaunt for certain members of our party). It was great to see that the day before the hiker's log had been signed by a father and two sons, aged 48, 50 & 76. I can only hope to be as active (and on this side of the grass) at that age! As an aside, Bunsen Peak was named after the same person who invented the Bunsen burner.

It clouded up late morning, and we could see rain in the distance, so we left Mammoth and headed to Gardiner for lunch. After waiting out the rain a bit, we headed back to Mammoth and took in the Mammoth spring and terrace. It was an expansive series of hot springs and the travertine deposits that they had left behind over the years. It was easy to image how it would have looked at different points of time in the past, but a lot of the features were presently dormant. The ones that were active were quite impressive, with multi-tiered features where water cascaded down over the levels. It was also very easy to see the formation of the mineral and bacterial structures. In many places, you could see fine grained structures where they were growing - it reminded us of tiny coral.

Late afternoon, the clouds built up and started raining again (fortunately, we just made it back to Lulu as the drops started falling, so we didn't get wet). We did a short drive around the upper terrace area, and then headed back to town. We were hoping to get one more stroll in before we called it a day, but the weather wasn't cooperative. In the end getting back to the hotel by 8:00 (instead of after 9:00) made for a relaxing evening playing Fan's Unstable Unicorns game, that has taken on a rapid following amongst the group.

On our travels, we saw several animals. When we started up the Bunsen hike, we saw several colonies of ground squirrels, including some babies. We also spied a mule deal on the ridge above us. He looked our way a few times, and then slipped over to the other side and out of sight. On our way back down, we saw a badger bounding around the meadow trying to catch some of the said squirrels. We also saw an antelope and some elk in Gardiner, and when we went back to Mammoth after lunch, we found 4 cow elk sunning themselves in the grass median along the main parkway. Several of them were sprawled out and sleeping, and all were enjoying the warm sun. We pulled into a parking spot, and the closest elk was no more than 10' away. She briefly opened a sleepy eye, sighed, and went back to sleep.

The most interesting animal encounter of the day though was watching a bison walk across a half-mile bridge. We spied him as we were coming down from Bunsen as he was nearing the approach of the bridge. We thought he might veer off, but he didn't. He just slowly ambled along the shoulder/right lane until he made it across, at which point he stepped off into the grass and began eating. While he was crossing, Adina noted the statement that he made: the original caretakers of the park holding up the new transients (in cars) and putting them on his schedule rather than theirs. We got to drive past him as we left the Bunsen parking area. It was an awesome sight and we all wondered about the pine boughs that he had stuck in his horns.

Distance-wise, we ended up with about 7.5 miles of walking and 65 miles of driving today.
