---
layout: post
title:  "Day 4: The mountains are calling."
date:   2019-06-12, Wednesday
categories: post
location: Death Canyon, Grand Teton National Park, WY, USA
---

iPhone stats:  10.4 Miles, 850 ft, 22893 steps

Our first full day in Teton! We all got up and going early to make the most of it. We headed to the south side of the park and did a hike by Phelps' lake, to death canyon (I know, sounds appealing if you're trying to decide on a hiking destination right?). Regardless of how the name sounds, it was a very alluring hike (recommended by a park ranger at the visitor station). 

You hike through some pine forests, then you reach a point where you look down and see the lake for the first time. Afterwards, you switchback your way down about 1000', cross a lowland (with a great stream), and then head back up to reclaim all the altitude you lost and then some, heading towards a pass between multiple peaks. All the while, you periodically get views of the lake. Since we started out early, are first few views were of a giant blue-green mirror, reflecting the surrounding pines and peaks. It's the kind of thing you see on postcards, only instead of being measured in inches, the image is measured in 100's of yards. It's truly amazing.

The route is nominally 8 miles long (4 out and 4 back), but due to the late spring, we couldn't make it all the way. We crossed several small snow fields, most of which were relatively benign (though one of which was a bit tricky as it was on a decent incline, though we were crossing perpendicular to the slope), but eventually we came to a large and highly sloped field that blocked our path.

Ever the trailblazer, Tomas climbed up a good way and said it looked fine, but the majority of our party felt it too dangerous and uncertain to risk traversing it (and likely rightly so). I felt it was probably not a good rational idea to proceed as well, but we were so close to the precipice of the climb - nearly able to see into the next valley, that I couldn't let it go. So, Tomas and I climbed across the snow and then scrambled up a boulder field until we got to the top of the ridge and could see the other side.

The reward for our adventure was moving. We were sitting atop a narrow, rocky ridge. On either side, to our left and right, were distinct valleys, hemmed in by the towering peaks both in front and behind us. And we were there, seemingly alone in the world. We only stayed a few minutes, but it was really impressive. We managed to retrace our steps and descend the snow field safely, but not unscathed. When I returned to the bottom, I realized that my wedding ring had escaped! (super sad face!). I went back up and town a couple of more times, following my footsteps and trying to place my hand where I had before, but didn't have any luck locating it :( It was a steep price of admission to our little sanctuary, but I guess if it was destinated to escape somewhere, it would be hard to image a better place.

Today was also a good wildlife viewing day. We started off seeing several elk. A few at a distance on the drive in followed by a couple of others that were quite close. Eveliina didn't think that we were seeing elk because they were too small compared to the one that hit her Mom's car when she was a passenger. After some discussion, we came to the conclusion that her Mom had actually had an accident with a moose! Fortunately, everyone (outside the moose) was shaken but ok after the incident. As an aside, the Elk seem to be more wary then either the deer or moose when it comes to being in close proximity to people. Maybe they're a bit smarter?

Speaking of moose, we also saw three of those. We saw a pair between the trail and the creek in the pine forest. They were grazing on the plants and young bushes and our paths paralleled for quite a while. Then, we headed down the path a bit and ran into a single moose just off the trail (also grazing). It made for great wildlife viewing, and really made you appreciate what splendid creatures moose are. Throughout our encounters, Eveliina demonstrated a heightened (and probably appropriate) weariness of the moose, but the ones we saw today were unthreatened by us and we all went about our gazing and grazing without repercussion.

Today was also marmot day - we probably saw 187 of them. Ok, maybe that's not quite right - we likely saw some of the same ones twice. Whatever the actual number, there were a lot. They were cute - they looked a bit chubby and had a very earnest face. Coupled with their sunbathing on the rocks surrounding their dens, they were quite entertaining.

We also saw a couple of pikas. They look a little like a large, chubby mouse who is missing its tail, but apparently they're more closely related to rabbits. They spend the summer amassing a stockpile of food in its den that it can eat all winter (which would explain why they looked annoyed when we interrupted their preparations).  

We also saw a couple of male dusky grouse. They were quite striking with their black and white feathers with a red patch of skin on each side of their neck. They were quite annoyed at us too (I started to sense a theme), and put on a display of puffing and huffing to make sure we were well aware of their disdain.

To get to the trailhead, we had to traverse a mile long dirt path. Even though it was recommended for 4x4 vehicles, Lulu did admirably and we made it in and out without incident (not counting a few times when we tested out the ground clearance by taking the tops off a couple of the bumps in the road). Otherwise, she had a light day of 48 miles.
