---
layout: post
title:  "Day2: Wyoming or bust!"
date:   June 15, 2019
categories: post
location: Mt. Rushmore, Custer State Park 
--- 

June 10 - 10.3 miles, 790 ft, 22770

Today was our "bonus" day. We were planning 2 days to Teton, but since we were able to leave a day early, we had 3, which gave us a bit more time to explore, and explore we did.

We started the day with a trip to Mt. Rushmore. It was an impressive sight, especially when you consider it was completed in 1941. It was interesting to hear what Eveliina and Tomas thought about it, not having the connection to the people enshrined on it. When you thought about why the monument was created - why create these giant stone faces - it seemed apparent that the idea of "because we could" that underlies much of the American bravado doesn't seem to have a European counterpart.  Nonetheless, everyone got to enjoy the final result.

We then headed south, through windy roads, climbs and descents, and one-lane tunnels, arriving at Custer State Park (SD). We took a drive around the wildlife loop - renown for bison viewing. As you might imagine, we saw none. We didn't strike out entirely though. We did see several antelope, including one buck who was quite content to graze on purple prairie flowers atop a small rise just off the shoulder of the road. Later in the day, we realized that antelope are quite common here, but the early sightings were quite exciting. We also ran into a heard of about 8 donkeys. They had stopped traffic and where circling the cars, collecting their "toll" in the way of handouts. It was quite the racquet as most people gladly paid. They were very friendly, coming up right to the cars, reaching their heads in or mingling with passengers who disembarked. It was an unexpected sight.

After completely the loop, we drove up to Sylvan Lake (also in the park). It was a picturesque mountain lake, but we didn't spend long there, we embarked on a hike to Black Elk Mtn., the highest point in South Dakota. The peak stands 7242' tall and has a fire lookout on the top. They have a plaque saying that it is the highest point east of the Rockies and west of the Pyrenees, and we hiked our way up there, about a 3 mile hike up from the lake. Adina served a 3 course meal at the summit: Trail mix for an appetizer, a main course of beef jerky, and dehydrated mango for dessert. When you take the view into account, it was quite the meal indeed. We took a different return loop and saw some additional scenery. It was quite a nice hike with sweeping vistas of the surrounding countryside at times, and varied forest views at others. At one point, we nearly walked past 3 (mule, I think) deer just off the path. We noticed them just in time, and enjoyed looking at them while they ate. All 3 were bucks, with velvet antlers just emerging. We saw a couple of does similarly close to the trail a bit further along. It was really great to be that close to them. All told, we hiked about 4 hours and covered something along the lines of 7.5 miles.

After dinner in the town of Custer, we headed west. Originally, we were going to hit Red Lodge, MT in preparation for a morning drive down the Scenic Beartooth highway in the morning. Only one problem: a snowstorm Friday night had closed the pass, and it still wasn't open. So, we decided to detour south to Casper, WY to make tomorrow's drive shorter at least. Unfortunately, we had trouble finding a hotel room, which was surprising. We checked a bit more and learned that the collegiate rodeo nationals were going on this week. Apparently, that's a big deal as the town seemed nearly full. So, we pressed on to Riverton, WY, where we gladly settled into our beds. All told, we logged 426 gorgeous miles today. Other than the mule deer that came feet away from running into the side of Lulu just outside of town (when we were rolling 65 mph), it was smooth sailing. Our corresponding step count came in around 22,500. Without a doubt, it was a full bonus day!
