---
layout: post
title:  "Day 6: That's why it's Yellowstone"
date:   2019-06-14, Friday
categories: post
location: Canyon village, Yellowstone National Park, WY, USA
---

iPhone stats: 9.2 miles, 540 ft, 20379 steps

Today, we left the old faithful region (in the south) and headed toward canyon village (on the east). On the way we stopped and toured the Norris basin. It had a lot the same feel as the old faithful region: a large expanse of another world. Barren ground covered by mineral deposits and colorful bacteria, interrupted periodically by steaming, hissing vents spewing sulfur fumes. If you woke up there and didn't look to the surrounding hills of pine, you could easily image that you had been transported to another planet. It was a really impressive expanse. The new addition was green algae that lives in slightly cooler water than the iron eating bacteria that makes the orange color we had been seeing.

After that stop, we headed toward Canyon Village (elevation 7910'), stopping at the south rim of the "grand canyon of Yellowstone". We wanted to do Uncle Tom's hike, but the trail was closed due to winter damage. We still hiked along the river a bit and then made an executive decision to drive rather than hike to artist's point. The view there was great, but the decision to drive rather than hike turned out to be a prudent one as it started raining on us lightly just about the time we made it back to Lulu and by the time we were headed out of the parking lot, it was hailing! It was pea size and smaller, but we were still glad to be in the car and not on the trail!

After waiting out the storm in the Village hotel, we did some hikes on the north rim of the river/canyon. Having been to the Grand Canyon, I don't know that the comparison is apt as the scale of the two features doesn't really compare, but the canyon at Yellowstone is still very impressive. The yellow walls are high and jagged with a rushing river below. It was a completely different topography than what we'd seen before and I really enjoyed seeing it. 

Other than the overall size, the most impressive viewpoint was the brink of the lower falls. Standing just off the side of the fall nearly at the apex level was a really powerful perspective. Looking at the rushing water cascading into mist below elicited a feeling of trepidation. Afterwards, we hiked a couple more trails to see the falls from different perspectives, at which point QP declared that he had had enough of the waterfall.

So, we drive to another part of the park and looked at the dragon's mouth and several other geysers and pools that contained a lot of mud. In that region, the water seemed to have more sulfur in it than other regions, which led to more sulfuric acid, which degraded the rock and turned it into mud. While we enjoyed a small mud pot near imperial geyser, these thermal features were on a much larger scale. Eveliina also declared them to be more stinky on a similarly large scale!

Animal-wise, we saw several bison today. Some small groups, some large groups. They really make a statement wherever they're present. They're hard to miss with their large, dark forms standing out from the verdant green of the valleys. While we only saw a few small herds, it was easy to imagine the majesty of the large herds that used to roam these areas. We also saw a few elk, and a wolf bounding across a field at a bit of a distance (we came on a stopped group of cars, so we knew there was something, and Eveliina spotted the wolf running across the meadow). It was across the valley from a herd of bison, and the pairing made it all the easier to imagine how things were before we decided to intervene. 

It took close to 10 miles of hiking and 81 miles of driving to get everything in today, but it was totally worth it.
 
