---
layout: post
title:  "Day 5: Yellowstone!"
date:   2019-06-13, Thursday
categories: post
location: Moran, WY, USA; Upper geyser basin, Yellowstone National Park, WY, USA
---

iPhone stats: 13.9 miles, 280 ft, 32761 steps

This morning we left Teton and headed north to Yellowstone. We stopped a couple of places along the way to take pictures of the Tetons and their imposing beauty on the way out. We saw an osprey, a couple of elk, and several geese, with goslings on those stops. However, the most exciting animal sighting was a couple of small grizzly bears that were out by the highway. They must have been there for a while by the time we got there as there were rangers set up to direct traffic and keep people moving. Nonetheless, we got to see them cross the road, and got some good pictures of them just off to the side.

Speaking of animals, as we were coming up on our trailhead, Adina asked Fan and QP which animals they hadn't seen that they wanted to. Fan immediately answered "bison". Not 5 minutes later, as we approached the parking lot for our hike, we had to slow down for a bison crossing the road. It then meandered through the parking lot area. We were able to see him quite closely, and even hear him eating the grass! It was really awesome to get a perspective on their size from that perspective.

For sights, we took the fairy falls hike. It starts with an overlook of the grand prismatic spring. It's a beautiful, large (~200' in diameter) spring with deep turquoise blues in the center contrasted with bright rusty reds on the outside. It was an impressive sight. We also found out that it is the iconic image of Yellowstone for Fins. Apparently, their school books use that image when discussing Yellowstone, so much as we think of bison or old faithful, Fins think of this spring, so it was good to see.

We then hiked through swarms of mosquitos to the falls. The volume of water wasn't great, but they were high up and impressive nonetheless. We then continued on to see spray geyser (which was relatively small and not that close to the trail) and then followed a warm creek to it's source: imperial geyser, which was much larger and nearer the trail. The geyser itself was in a relatively large pool of blue water. It stirred one corner continuously. It was a dramatic illustration of the never ending battle between the cold mountain water and the hot magma just below. The two continually clashed in a bowl of swirling, spewing fury, neither able to gain the upper hand, but resulting in a very impressive show.

In the evening, we saw old faithful from two vantage points: once from the lodge, and again from the overlook behind. It is quite an impressive display of force. Even though the observation point is a bit away, it was nice to be away from the benches and throngs of viewers that characterize the main viewing area. In contrast to imperial geyser, you are quite far from old faithful - it doesn't seem as wild or natural. Kind of like a caged animal at the zoo - all of its power is still there, but it's obviously out of its natural surroundings.

We then went for a walk around the upper geyser basin. Yellowstone has thousands of thermal springs and about 150 geysers, the vast majority of which are in this basin. It was an impressive place with steam rising into the evening sky from each of these features giving a visual cue to the quantity and dispersion of them. The surrounding area was very foreign looking: lots of light colored minerals and bacteria spread out over otherwise bear ground. The pools themselves were generally deep blue, and when contrasted with their white surroundings, they looked as though they could equally have been frigid pools of icy water rather than hot ones. Taken together, walking through that space, you felt again as if you could have been on another, largely inhospitable planet. It was truly an impressive and unique display.

We also set a step record today: just a bit over 30,000, which Apple translated into 13.6 miles. Coupled with 97 miles in Lulu (including multiple trips across the continental divide), it made for another busy day (though we did find time to celebrate Fan's birthday too, complete with crate paper banners covering her seat in the car).
