---
layout: post
title:  "Day 11: One last push"
date:   2019-06-19, Wednesday
categories: post
location: Badlands National Park, USA
---


Today was not so much one of adventure as it was execution. Today we spent many hours in Lulu engaging with the landscape of the upper Midwest primarily through the windshield. Today was the final leg of our journey – a final push back home to conclude our great western adventure.

The experience was very much a continuation. Just as yesterday we watched as the mountains had faded into buttes and plateaus, which in turn faded into hills, today we saw those hills gradually concede to plains. Leaving Rapid City, we headed east-south east towards the familiar confines of Ames. We watched as the topography gradually flattened, epitomized by the "fantastically flat" character of central Iowa. We saw the land use evolve similarly – from grazing to irrigated fields of small grains to the corn and soybeans that define Iowa. From red dirt to brown to dark black. From vast stretches of relatively uninhabited space to more organized and occupied fields and farms. The grasslands and their attendant antelope slowly succumbing to the orderly agricultural industry that characterizes our home state.

As we made the journey, all 614 miles of it, we had plenty of time to reflect and think about what we'd seen and how we ended up where we did. Time to think about how nice it would be to wake up and see mountains. Thoughts of weekend hikes with the pups. Visions of grand pastels spread across the enormous palette of the western sky each morning and evening. A feeling of expansive freedom for your soul to roam.  

And yet as these possibilities slowly faded, gradually replaced by the familiar sights that preceded our arrival home, I couldn't help but think about a comment Tomas made before we left. Having visited Ames a couple of times, he remarked that it was always in the summer, and as a result, Ames was a wonderful place of never-ending summer. Surely, some of this same effect contributed to the mystique of the land we'd been slowly leaving behind. Visions of green, feelings of warm sun, will undoubtedly be replaced by shades of brown and then white; cool and then cold replacing the warmth; light increasingly losing its daily struggle with dark. 

While I realize that some of the draw is illusory, thinking back on the trip, all the good times and grand views, I can't help but feel a pull to return. After so many miles, the familiar confines of home are certainly comforting, but the allure to be somewhere more amenable to exploring remains profound.
