---
layout: post
title:  "Day 3: The party grows."
date:   2019-06-11, Tuesday
categories: post
location: Grand Teton National Park, WY, USA
---

iPhone stats: 9.1 miles, 430 ft, 22317 steps

The major news today is that our party has reached full strength. Straight from San Diego, CA (ok, well technically they had a layover in SLC), Fan and QP arrived mid afternoon. It was great to see them, and they always bring a great energy to any adventure.

Before we were able to accomplish that though, we had to make our way to Jackson Hole. Comparatively speaking, it was an easy day in the car. Only 240 miles today, and the trip over was quite scenic. Almost immediately outside of Riverton, we could see the Rockies and Tetons in the distance. They rose intimidating in the distance - a wall of jagged black peaks gilded with contrasting white on their tops. It is amazing how far away they're visible, and it was exciting to watch them grow as we got closer.

After picking Fan & QP up at the airport (there are a lot of private jets sitting on the tarmac at Jackson Hole, btw), we went straight out for a hike that a park ranger had recommended. Due to the heavy snow and cold spring, our options were somewhat limited. None of the high elevation hikes/passes are easily assessable. Still a lot of waste deep snow around!

Instead, we did a 7 mile loop to see Taggart and Bradley lakes. It was a very nice hike. We transitioned through some evergreen forests and some high country meadows on our way. A good bit of the trail ran next to a creek that provided some relaxing babbling as an added bonus. Of course, the lakes were great - surrounded by evergreens, boxed in by the Tetons, stirred with ripples from the downhill breeze - they were very picturesque. The trail gave us many good vantage points, both above and right down to the shore. Tomas thought that the water looked so inviting, that he took an invigorating swim in lake Bradley. Despite his assurances that the water was great, he wasn't able to convince anyone else to join him.

Other than the scenery, we saw a few woodland creatures today. We saw the usual chipmunks, and a few grey squirrels. We also saw some ground squirrels at a couple of different spots. Near the end of the hike, we saw two cow elk and two calves in a little group. They were standing back in the pines, maybe 50 yards from the trail staring silently as we cluelessly (and somewhat noisily, being in bear country) ambled by. Once spotted, they stared a bit longer, and then turned and disappeared deeper in the woods. Another group of hikers said that they saw some bears about a mile up the trail (in the direction we weren't going). So far, that's as close as we've come to seeing any (slightly edging out the burned-out pine stump that QP thought looked suspiciously like a bear at a bit of a distance). 
